Well we're still on the topic of background images.
I would like to cover gradients and see assess gradients are very very cool feature of CSX but I can
tell you right away that there is more to gradients than what we will cover because we will use gradients
for very specific reason to add overlay for our background images.
And if you feel that you would like to research gradients in more detail you can always utilize external
resources.
With that being said what in the world are gradients.
We always we're going to start with an example.
And this is not going to be different.
We we're gonna get rid of all the headache ones right now as well as this div and we're going to create
six deaths so I'm gonna say if the class is going to be let's say 1 and then it was going to copy and
paste it.
So let's do the second one and you know what.
Let's select all of them right away all the class values and what is gonna change here.
Let's delay this and here let's say number two and number three read and we're looking for the war.
Surprise surprise.
This would be five and then this is gonna be box number six.
I'm gonna say this right now.
Then we're gonna head over to the C assess I'm gonna select everything and we'll just gonna delete it.
We're gonna start very simply by adding some width and height to our all our lives.
So they have a number one number two and all the way up to the six is going to have the width of hundred
and fifty pixels.
Then we're also gonna add the let's say height of hundred pix 50 pixels.
So let's say height of hundred fifty pixels.
And then we would like to set them side by side.
So again we're gonna use the property with the value that we're going to cover a little bit later which
will gonna be display flex.
And again don't get hung up on this because this is very easy thing.
We just haven't covered it yet.
What we have when we have the gradient how we can start working with a gradient.
Well there's many ways but in our case we're going to use the background to say that no one is going
to have the property of the background.
And here we can use the linear gradient known for the linear gradient.
We have values that we're going to have to input for the colors as well as direction now direction again.
There's gonna be already some default one.
So if I'm gonna write for number one red and green what do you think is gonna happen when I'm going
to save it.
The gradient is starting from the top which again would be the default if you're not adding here the
positioning and it gradually changes color from the red all the way to the green.
We can also test that out let's say with number two let me cut and paste it let's say here that I'm
gonna be selecting the box number two but for the box number two I'm gonna change the direction of where
the color is going.
So let's say in this case I'm gonna write two and then we're looking for the top at the moment we're
gonna save it.
Notice this box right now is in fact working like the way it should be.
Now you know what.
Let me add a little bit more margin say the margin is going to be let's say five pixels.
So that's going to be my five pixels.
And then you know what I shouldn't have added display flex to the div should have 1 to all of them.
And here I'm want to say to the body.
So my apologies.
We're gonna head over here and we're gonna say that for the body we're gonna add display flags.
Now technically you don't have to do it.
We're probably gonna be able to see six boxes but I just think that it's gonna be a little bit easier
if there are gonna be side by side on the moon we'll save it.
Now this is how they're gonna look like but you know what I'm noticing right now.
Actually the boxes are really small so maybe let's just leave it without a flex.
So I'm gonna say it and then was going to see boxes one by one again.
I did a little bit of detour but I think we all gonna get over that.
Okay.
So we have red coming all the way to the green which would be the gradient.
And then again the direction wouldn't be the default one from the top to the bottom.
But if we change it and if we say to the top and here we can say red green again color is going to start
then to the top.
So the first color rule gonna write is gonna start with the bottom and then we're gonna go to the top.
We're not limited to adding these two colors we can add whatever color values you would like.
So here I can just say blue yellow and just keep on typing away.
Again I can add another 50 but hopefully already understand the idea of what's happening is that we
are pretty much setting up these values so far so good.
What else we have.
Well then we have number two we can add our cell number three.
So let's say and you know what it's probably gonna be easier for me to grab this class and did that
because we're all going to be selecting class.
And here we're gonna say for what I would like to show you right now is that we also have an option
of working with the degrees were not limited only to adding this to the top.
I can say that you know what.
No I didn't want to change the second one.
Let me undo it and let's say instead of red and green.
Let's write like this.
Let's say that we were going to be looking for degrees and hundred and fifty degrees.
So let's see how this is going to look like I'm gonna save it.
And now what's happening is I really did not the color.
So let's say number three and this needs to be right after that.
And now I see that I'm having it from the hundred and fifty degrees so it's starting from let's say
red and then goes all the way to the green.
I'm going to change it let's say 315.
Again this is changing where the colors are starting.
I get nothing really fancy.
You're just changing of the direction of your grading.
We also have an option of adding this by letters.
So in this case if we all going to copy and paste it and you know it let me select properly these lines
let's say I'm going to say these guys and again talking and typing is not going to be my strong suit
at the moment I'm going to copy paste it.
Let's say I'm going to change this one to number four four and here let's change it from the degrees
let's say to the top left so I can say tilt up and left again.
This would start with red then green and then would go all the way up to the top left.
Now if you wanted the top right and right to the top right.
So now it starts here and we end up here.
We have a green one all the way on the right hand side.
And hopefully you understand that by changing these directions we are changing where the linear gradient
is going to start and where this is ending up.
Now in our case what we all gonna be doing we're going to be doing this for the overlay.
And we're going to see that next video with a very very clear example.
But I would just want to show you two more things that we are not limited again to the color names we
can use whatever color values we would like.
So let's test it out.
Let's say that we are going to be looking for number five.
Then again we're going to have the background say background then we're having a linear gradient and
here instead of using the color names we can also use the hex values.
But what we were gonna do a lot is going to be what our GPA.
Now the reason for it is our GPA is going to be much more clear in the next video we're going to be
covering the actual background image.
But for now let's just start out.
Now remember for the background images what we had.
I'm sorry for the RGA what we had what we had the values.
So red green and blue and then we were looking for the opacity or the transparency.
So let's say I'm going to start with zero point three transparency.
This is not gonna be more towards the black.
It's gonna be more towards the white because if I'm gonna go to total zero this is gonna be in white.
And here the opposite would be the fact that if I'm going with 0 0 and here the last one is also gonna
be let's say zero point nine.
So me and the comma and then we're gonna have zero point nine.
Now what's happening right now is nothing.
Because I probably have some kind of mistake.
And sure enough I do because I have here 1 0.
So so far so good.
And then I also have one extra zero because there should be only four values total and I have five.
So once I added since the direction is the default one where it starts basically from the top to the
bottom and actually to quickly show you the default one would be like this.
So if you were gonna write to the bottom.
Nothing is going to change because that would be the default one.
So once we're gonna save it I get notice we're starting from the top and we go to the bottom again as
always we have the default values and this pretty much is gonna be one of them.
And here I would like to work with the RGA.
So that's the reason we restart by zero point three.
So this is kind of transparent and we go all the way to zero point nine which is almost almost black.
Now four to six we can do the same thing.
Nobody's gonna test that out with a to the left just to see that this for sure is going to work.
So make up and paste it let's say let's say here we're looking for six so that six and then add let's
just add here I don't know to the left or to the right.
It doesn't really matter.
So we can say to the left and now we have the initial color starts here with zero point three and then
it goes to the black one which is gonna be on the left hand side.